## Ellipses and Circles

To draw an ellipse, you specify its bounding box int the same way that you would specify a rectangle, namely by the x- and y-coordinates of the top-left corner and the width and height of the box.

However, there is no simple `Ellipse` class that you can use. Instead, you may use `Ellipse2D.Double` `Double` means you will have the ellipse coordinates as double-precision floating-point values.

Here is how you construct an ellipse:

```java
Ellipse2D.Double ellipse = new Ellipse2D.Double(x, y, width, height);
```

### Inner class

`Ellipse2D.Double` consists of two class names `Ellipse2D` and `Double` separetad by a period(.). This indicates that `Ellipse2D.Double` is a so-called **inner class** inside `Ellipse2D`.

In the `import` statement at the top of your program, you must be careful that you import only the outer class.

```java
import java.awt.geom.Ellipse2D;
```

## Lines

To draw a line, use an object of the `Line2D.Double` class. A line is constructed by specifying its two end points. You can do this in two ways.

Give the x- and y-coordinates of both end points:

```java
Line2D.Double segment = new Line2D.Double(x1, y1,x2,y2);
```

Or specify each end point as an object of the `Point2D.Double` class:

```java
Point2D.Double from = new Point2D.Doubl1(x1,y1);
Point2D.Double to = new Point2D.Double(x2, y2)
Line2D.Double segment = new Line2D.Double(from, to)
```

The second option is more object-oriented and is often more useful, particularly if the point objects can be reused elsewhere in the same drawing.

## Importing packages

`Ellipse2D`, `Line2D`, and `Point2D` belong to the `java.awt.geom` package. You must import either `java.awt.geom.*` or each class individually.`geo` stands for geometry. `java.awt.*` only covers classes directly inside the `awt` package, not subpackages such as `awt.geom`.

## Drawing Text

Use the drawingString method of the Graphics2D class to draw a string anywhere in a window. You must specify the string and the x- and y-coordinates of the basepoint of the first character in the string.

```java
g2.drawString("Message",50,100);
```

## Colors

Java uses RGB color model.

```java
Color magenta = new Color(255, 0, 255);
```

A varaety of colors have been declared in the Color class. For example, `Color.PINK` has been declared to be the same color as `new Color(255, 175, 175)`.

To draw a shape in a different color, first set the color of the `Graphics2D` object, then call the `draw` method.

```java
Ellipse2D.Double circle = new Ellipse2D.Double(5,5,10,10);
g2.setColor(Clolor.red);
g2.draw(circle);
```

If you want to color the inside of the shape, use the `fill` method instead of the `draw` method. For example, `g2.fill(circle)` fills the inside of the circle with the current color.

You don’t assign a color directly to abstract shape objects such as rectangles or ellipses. Instead, you set the color on the `Graphics2D` object. When you call draw or fill, the shape is rendered with the current color, as if you were changing the color of a pen before drawing.

The following program puts all these shapes to work, creating a simple drawing.

#### FaceViewer.java

```java
import javax.swing.*;

public class FaceViewer {
    public static void main(String[] args){
        JFrame frame = new JFrame();
        frame.setSize(300,400);
        frame.setTitle("Face");
        frame.setDefaultCloseOperation(JFrame.EXIT_ON_CLOSE);

        FaceComponent component = new FaceComponent();
        frame.add(component);

        frame.setVisible(true);
    }
}
```

#### FaceComponent.java

```java
import java.awr.*;
import java.awt.geom.*;
import javax.swing.*;

public class FaceComponent{
    public static void paintComponent(Graphic g){

        Gpaphic2D g2 = (Graphic2D)g;

        Ellipse2D.Double faceline = new Ellipse2D.Double(1,1,20,40);
        g2.draw(faceline);

        Point2D.Double from = Point2D.Double(5,30);
        Point2D.Double to = Point2D.Double(15,30);
        Line2D.Double mouth = Line2D.Double(from, to);
        mouth.setColor(Color.RED);
        g2.draw(mouth);

        Rectangle eye = new Rectangle(5,10,2,2);
        eye.setColor(Color.GREEN);
        g2.fill(eye);
        eye.translate(13,0);
        g2.fill(eye);

        g2.drawString("Hello, World!", 43,100);
    }
}
```
