## Frame Windows

A graphical application shows information inside a frame.

The JFrame class is a part of the javax.swing package. Swing is the nickname for the graphical user interface library in Java. The "x" in javax denotes the fact that Swing started out as a Java extension before it was added to the standard library.

```java
import javax.swingJFrame;

public class EmptyFrameViewer {
    public static void main(String[] args){
        JFrame frame = new JFrame(); //Construct an object of the JFrame class.
        frame.setSize(300, 400); // Set the size of frame.
        frame.setTitle("An empty frame"); // Set the title of the frame(optional).
        frame.setDefaultCloseOperation(JFrame.EXIT_ON_CLOSE); // Set the default close operation.
        frame.setVisible(true); // Make the frame visible.
    }
}
```

## Drawing on a Component

You're not actually drawing on the frame itself, you're drawing on a component placed inside the frame.
The solution is to declare a new class that exptends the `JComponent` class.

### paintComponent method

To draw objects of Jcomponent, you need to use `paintComponent` method that is already declared in JComponent class, and modify the method within your component class. The `@override` annotation is optional.

### Graphics and Graphics2D type

The `paintComponent` method recieves an obhect of type `Graphics` as its argument. The `Graphics` object sotres the graphics state -- the current color, font, and so on -- that are used for drawing operations. However, the Graphics class is not very useful. When programmers clamored for a more object-oriented approach to drawing graphics, the designers of Java created the `Graphics2D` class, whitch extends the Graphics class. Whenever the Swing toolkit calls the `paintComponent` method, it actually passes an object of type `Graphics2D` as the argument. Because we want to use the more sophisticated methods to draw two-dimentional graphics object, we need to use the `Graphics2d` class. This is accomplished by using a cast.

```java
public class RectangleComponent extends JComponent{
    public void paintComponent(Graphics g){
        // Recover Graphics2D
        Graphics2D g2 = (Garaphics2D) g;
        Rectangle box = new Rectangle(5,10,20,30);
        g2.draw(box);
    }
}
```

### Positioning the shapes

When positioning the shapes, you need to pay attention to the coordinate system.It is different from the one used in mathematics. The origin (0,0) is at the upper-left corner of the component, and the y-coordinate grows downward.

### Importing classes

The `Graphics`, `Graphics2D`, and `Rectangle` classes are part of the `java.awt` package that provides basic components. AWT stands for Abstract Window Toolkit. `JFrame` and `JComponent` are part of `javax.swing` package which is an extention of awt. `x` in `javax` is for extention since swing was originally introduced as an extention libraly in Java. J in `JFrame` or `JComponent` is for Java.

## Displaying a Component in a Frame

In a graphical application, you need two things below.

- A frame to show the application
- A component for the drawing
  To combine the two, follow these steps:

1. Construct a frame object and configure it.
   `Jframe frame = new JFrame();`
2. Construct an object of your component class:
   `RectangleComponent component new RectangleComponent`
3. Add the component to the frame:
   `frame.add(component)`
4. Make the frame visible:
   `frame.setVisible(true)`

Note that the rectangle drawing program consists of two classes:

- The `RectangleComponent` class, whose `paintComponent` method produces the drawing.
- The `RectangleViewer` class, whose `main` method constructs a frame and a `RectangleComponent`, adds the component to the frame, and makes the frame visible.

#### RectangleViewer.java

```java
import javax.swing.*;

public class RectangleViewer{
    public static void main(String[] args){
        JFrame frame = new JFrame();

        frame.setSize(300,400);
        frame.setTitle("Two Rectangles");
        frame.setDefaultCloseOperation(JFrame.EXIT_ON_CLOSE);

        RectangleComponent component new RectangleComponent();
        frame.add(component);

        frame.setVisible(true);
    }
}
```

#### RectangleComponent.java

```java
import java.awt.Graphics;
import java.awt.Graphics2D;
import java.awt.Rectangle;
import javax.swing.JComponent;

// A component that draws two rectangle.
public class RectangleComponent extends JComponent{
    public void paintComponent(Graphics g){
        // Recover Graphics2D
        Graphics2D g2 = (Graphics2D) g;
        // Construct a rectangle and draw it
        Rectangle box = new Rectangle(5,10,20,30);
        g2.draw(box);
        // Move rectangle 15 units to the right and 25 units down
        box.translate(15,25);
        // Draw moved rectangle
        g2.draw(box);
    }
}
```
